well Mustafa baruti is Secretary General
of the Palestinian national initiative
the former Palestinian information
Minister joins us live from Madrid on
Skype and some of the analysis we've
heard so far suggests that the content
of this agreement isn't too different
from proposals that have been made
before uh including uh one agreement
that was rejected by the Israelis is the
real question now not necessarily H how
Hamas will respond but uh what Netanyahu
is going to do with this uh deal
well according to the American president
this is an Israeli plan an Israeli offer
but what we still need to hear is that
Netanyahu really accepts his own offer
if it is his offer so the most important
Point here is that Israel must be held
accountable for what is declared as an
Israeli plan and I think that's what
Hamas and other resistance movements
should uh should insist on that there is
a clear statement by by by Netanyahu
that he is really approving or
supporting this particular proposal
that's one point the second point is
that this uh declaration and this kind
of details that we have heard ER clearly
show that Israel and the United States
of America are both admitting the
failure of the Israeli War on Gaza in
the sense that it has failed in
achieving all its goals it has failed
failed in imposing with ethnic cleansing
on Palestinian people in Gaza it has
failed to eradicate the Palestinian
resistance it has failed to bring back
Israeli prisoners without an exchange
deal uh and that by itself will have a
very big impact on Netanyahu and his
future in the long run finally the most
important thing is that to make sure
that Netanyahu will not play games again
the fact that Biden decided to declare
by himself
these points and clearly he wouldn't
have done so if it wasn't he if he
didn't receive Israeli approval of it is
is his way of besieging in my opinion
Netanyahu and preventing him from
maneuvering again everything you've just
said about the failure of the war to
achieve its objectives I supp suppose
could also be used as a pretext for
Netanyahu to continue the
war yeah if you could but you see it's
interesting what Biden said that Israel
is getting isolated completely at the
world I mean worldwide and that he said
that the continuation of the war will
not bring Israel anything else it will
not bring Israel Victory it will not
bring Israel more than it what what what
they have on the table now and so in my
opinion Netanyahu Biden was pressuring
Netanyahu to say to to to to accept the
reality uh which is that it is
impossible to achieve anything more uh
all that Israel has achieved is killing
46,000 Palestinian civilians mainly I
mean if we include the 10,000 people who
are decomposing under the rebel
unfortunately all he has achieved is the
destruction of the total infrastructure
of Gaza people's homes people's houses
causing a lot of pain to
Palestinians achieving any political
goal very important to you know the
politics is there but also to focus on
Gaza and the people inside who've been
through an unbearable eight months but
this after Decades of a a blockade and a
Siege in any case do you see any path
for this uh agreement to make life
easier for them because you say Gaza is
now
uninhabitable for sure if this uh plan
is
implemented uh if Netanyahu stops his
war and removes his army from Gaza and
if the American president fulfills his
promise that there will be a sufficient
supply of humanitarian Aid and most
important the beginning of
reconstruction of Gaza uh I think this
will relieve of course some of the pain
some of the pain will never go away
those who lost their fathers their
mothers their children their their wives
their husbands of course course these
are wounds that will never heal but at
least the suffering could stop and the
the more no more people would be killed
this is what we want and at the end of
the day it's a turning point in the
sense of showing that Palestinian people
will never give up Will Never Surrender
unless they get their freedom and that
applies not only to what's happening in
the the Gaza ship but also what's
happening in the west bank and to
Palestinian people people in general
thank you very much Secretary General of
the Palestinian national initiative and
former information Minister mfar baruti
speaking to us let's get more on the
an make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from alaz